Add vector layer elevation properties (#7698)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: docs/user_manual/working_with_vector/vector_properties.rst

  selectively based on expression filters and scale range.
  More details on how-to at :ref:`Rule-based rendering <rule_based_rendering>`.

.. attention:: **Prefer the** :guilabel:`Elevation` **tab for symbol elevation and terrain settings**

 Features' elevation and altitude related properties (:guilabel:`Altitude clamping`,
 :guilabel:`Altitude binding`, :guilabel:`Extrusion` or :guilabel:`Height`)
 in the :guilabel:`3D View` tab inherit their default values from the layer's
 :ref:`Elevation properties <vectorelevationmenu>` and should preferably be set
 from within the :guilabel:`Elevation` tab.

>  They will be removed from the :guilabel:`3D View` tab in QGIS 4.0.

Author: Might be good to get confirmation for this

Reviewer: I'd remove that line. It **should** happen, but it's not a trivial change and may not happen as a result.

:ref:`general_tools_variables` section.

.. index:: Elevation, Terrain
.. _vectorelevationmenu:

Elevation Properties
====================

The |elevationscale| :guilabel:`Elevation` tab provides options to control
the layer elevation properties within a :ref:`3D map view <label_3dmapview>`
and its appearance in the profile tool charts. Specifically, you can set:

.. Todo: Add above a ref link to profile tool

.. _figure_elevationvector:

.. figure:: img/vector_elevation.png
   :align: center

   Vector layer elevation properties dialog

* :guilabel:`Elevation Clamping`: defines how and whether the features altitude
  should be:

  * :guilabel:`Clamped to terrain`: takes elevation directly from the terrain
    height and ignores any existing Z values in the features. A data-defined
    :guilabel:`Offset` value from the terrain can also be filled.
  * :guilabel:`Relative to terrain`: any existing Z values in the features

>     is added to the terrain height. A :guilabel:`Scale` factor followed by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    are added to the terrain height. A :guilabel:`Scale` factor followed by
```

    a data-defined :guilabel:`Offset` can be used to adjust the elevation.
    This option is not available for 2D geometry layers.
  * :guilabel:`Absolute`: ignores the terrain height and directly takes Z values
    from the features for the elevation. A :guilabel:`Scale` factor followed
    by a data-defined :guilabel:`Offset` can be used to adjust the elevation.
    For 2D geometry layers (with no Z values), a data-defined
    :guilabel:`Base height` can instead be set.
* |unchecked| :guilabel:`Enable extrusion`: you can set a :guilabel:`Height`
  to control how high features vertically extend above their base.

>   This is convenient to represent 2D geometry layers, e.g. polygon building
>   footprints layers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
  This is convenient to indicate that a 2D geometry layers, e.g. a polygon
  building footprints layer actually represents 3D objects.
```

* :guilabel:`Elevation Binding`: only relevant when combining an
  :guilabel:`Elevation clamping` relying on the terrain with a line or
  polygon layer, this option controls how feature elevation is set relative
  to the terrain height. The terrain can be sampled:

  * at the feature's :guilabel:`Centroid`, with the centroid height being
    added to each vertex's z value
  * at every individual :guilabel:`Vertex` before being added to the vertex's

>     z value

Author: I must admit that I do not understand the binding system and simply picked these sentences from the GUI. Still unclear. So if someone can explain/has a better wording?

Reviewer: Maybe this bad diagram helps explain:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1829991/196088558-3f01382d-3e58-4c20-a3f9-a8b818b29f54.png)

the terrain is shown in orange. With "centroid" clamping (blue feature) the line terrain height is only sampled at one place, the centroid, and so the start of the line will "float" above the surface and dig into the surface at the end.

With vertex clamping (pink feature) the terrain height is taken at every vertex, so the extruded line will sit above the terrain at the start and end.

Does that help?
